Hello everyone and welcome back.
In this lecture we're going to specifically talk about gimp's ability to expand its functionality through
the use of plugins and scripts.
They help massively when it comes to improving both workflow and the functionality of gimp.
Now there is an official site called registry dot guimpe dot org in this case when you go there.
I would just go back a step.
It will take you two.
We need to complete a different much more secure solution.
This is the official site they're working on that if you click on see the glossary you get a big long
list of every plug in and script that's available officially through the guimpe website.
However not all of these come with a an executable that you can run in it happily installs much like
it did that did it automatically for us this time round.
We're going to have to do it manually in order to do that you're going to have to just navigate away
from here.
Guimpe in the background here.
We're going to have to go into your file system to do this.
This is the Windows version.
I'll come back in a moment and do the Mac one as well.
Let me bring this down so you guys can see it as well.
We need to go into where we've installed guimpe.
Now most people's computers this will be on your C drive under Program Files.
Once you are in your program files you should see a folder called guimpe.
If you've installed gimp multiple times and have different versions you will have to pick the one that
you're currently using in order to install a script or a plugin.
Once we go into gimp to scan to make this full screen so we can focus.
We've got two locations two separate locations that plug ins are installed and the scripts are installed.
If we want to go ahead and install a plugin you'll have to go to the library or the lib folder.
Go to gimp 2.0 and then the plugins folder is right there for you and this is where you put your python
scripts.
However the script fool scripts are in a slightly different location.
Again go back to gimp to in the program file folder and go to share.
When sharing share you go to gimp 2.0 and then scrips and this is where you'll put your dot see em file
nice and straight forward as it's just a matter of copying the file into that location.
Once you've done that you'll be able to access the plug in and scripts on all users on the computer.
Now it is possible to install it privately on the user itself.
Now I'm not going to show you that in this lecture because that it's a little bit more involved and
in general won't be needed.
However I have linked the official resource so you can use that if necessary.
If you do need that which I don't think most people would.
Now onto the Mac version of what we've just gone through.
However one welcome over to my Mac logged in remotely so it might be a little bit sluggish but otherwise
we should be good to go.
So let's go through the process now of installing a plug in and script on a Mac.
First of all you need to go into finder.
Once you're in Finder let me make this a bit bigger.
You'll need to go to your applications folder.
If you're unsure of where to find this you may need to turn it on under the find the menu and preferences
on the side bar tab.
There's an option here to enable the applications that might not be ticked on your computer.
If you do ticket you'll be able to see what I can see here.
On top of that's what you can also do if the site but isn't there is go to view and make sure that the
side bar is in fact turned on.
Now that we've got that out the way on a Mac it's ever so slightly different programs are often very
self-contained so we have to open them up to view them.
So find yourself your gimp installation.
Right click on it and show package contents.
Now you'll be able to not navigate in to the contents folder resources.
And now we can see the two files we've seen before the p.c Installation the lib and the share.
And once again it's exactly the same.
You go to lib gimp 2.0 and plug ins to install any Python plugins and then under the shared folder.
And once again it's gimp 2.0 and then if we go down we should see scripts.
And this is where you put your script file.
This is a global installation still apply to all users of gimp on this computer.
If you want private installation again I will link to the documentation so you can do that.
However unless you are sharing your computer with someone who is very specific about what they can see
when they're using GIMP then of course that won't matter at all and often you'll be using very similar
plugins anyway.
And of course now we know where to put our s see em and python files.
I think it's time for a challenge and your challenge is going to be to install the following plugins
or in this case scrips So the Sprite sheet animations tiles.
And this is the link for that on the gimp registry.
I will also include these links in the resources as well for you.
And then finally fuse layers in the registry as well.
This is where you can find it.
Once you've done that of course do check that they're working.
Look at the documentation.
Just read what's there and it'll show you where you need to go to see whether it's install properly.
Reminder here that you will have to close gimp and reopen it.
If you don't close gimp you may also have installation problems when trying to copy the files over into
the program directory.
And finally if you do come across any other scripts and plug ins do let the community know as by talking
to one another.
We can all get better with Gimp.
So go ahead.
Pulls a video now and give that a go.
OK everyone welcome back.
Let's go ahead and install these two scripts.
Hey and welcome back.
I have already gone to the links provided.
So we've got the fuse layer and the Sprite sheets.
The first thing we need to do of course is download them.
So I'm going to click on Sprite sheet and I'm also going to click on Fuse layers.
Now they're very very tiny they are essentially text files so they will download nice and quickly.
Now on the fuse level we can see here it will appear under filters combine and fuse layers and with
the Sprite she animation if we read down here we can see the run menu option will be filter's Sprite
sheet and create from layers.
Incidentally I actually have gimp open at the moment with something I'm working on so I close that down
before I start.
There we go.
So now that's out of the way.
It's a matter of going to our downloads directory.
Theirs are two files and in this case I'm going to right click and cut and then I'm going to go find
the right place and paste them in now because it's a script.
We need to go in to the share folder gimp to point 0 and scripts then it's a matter of pasting them
in.
Now I have already done this so gives me a prompt to replace the files in the destination.
That's absolutely fine.
Now you may have permission issues copying to this folder.
In this case.
Absolutely fine to continue.
Give its administrator rights and you can copy them across similar.
On the Mac you may be asked to type in your max password when doing that.
So now those two files are in and ready to go.
Let's fire up gimp again and just do the quick tests.
If you happen to install a script or plug in that is actually quite big.
It might take a while to start back up again but this time not not so bad.
Now if I remember correctly we go to filters and I can see Sprite sheet is right at the bottom create
from layers that was the Sprite she won and the one fuse Lares was under combine and I can see them
both they're brilliant installed and ready to go.
How did you all get on.
Did you have any issues installing.
If you do do reach out for some help and I will see you will in the next lecture.